everyone and so this video is just
really about the basics of fish keep you
know like what to do as a beginner or
every started and piles it up and all
your fish are floating around dead you
know I'm you're gonna it's gonna explain
like you know what doing what not to do
now to avoid you know making the main
mistakes people always make so it's
actually it's coming pretty impossible
to explain everything in detail so what
I'm gonna do is I'm gonna put little
links down in the description about the
things gonna talk about you know so you
can read it in real detail like right
now I'm just gonna do talk about
everything really briefly I do kind of a
overview so um yeah so first thing you
want to do is when you get a tank or you
know before I get a tank is research you
know just research how a tank works like
the nitrogen cycle and which one up a
link down is what link down under the
video and just read about how all the
chemistry works and how the ecosystem
works all that so and when you get your
tank you're gonna have to cyclist
because you can't just get a tank and
put in fish straight away or there else
to probably just gonna die in a couple
of weeks so pretty much when you get a
tank it comes with a filter usually a
light in the user as well but what your
filter does just my black thing right
here did mines an internal filter it
houses their these sponges which will
and eventually I'm hold bacteria and
then this bacteria has to grow on the
tank so pretty much about the bacteria
does that I eats up the fish waste which
is quite toxic for the fish and I
converts into it into a less toxic you
kind of form which you will take out a
water changes so pretty much if you
haven't got too tight tank cycled them
the but here bacteria hasn't grown and
the water will very quickly become toxic
and your fish will die so that's why I
am if the cycle your tank and usually
that takes around them four to six weeks
so in that time you can just spend that
time studying you know a fish you
actually want to guess and the different
types and you know just cuz I mean you
can learn a lot in four to six weeks so
yeah and when you're
see when it's time to actually get your
fish and you want to maybe do better
research never try not to just rely in
your local pet shop to give you the
right information because generally
they're kind of you know they want to
get the sales and they're not really
going to give you the best information
so I advise we go to forums
I'm gonna put down at 2m links down on
the via video to forums ones that
Batman's tropical fish and other ones
aquatic community or Iman air both them
and I've been open for years now and
I've got some great information from
them and yeah so once you kind of
figured out what you want to get for the
tank what you want to do is and you want
to build tank around it so the fish are
getting or the species are getting see
some fish kind of a fur different setups
and different water chemistry like ferns
and African cichlids they prefer very
rocky lots of rocks and the caves it for
at hard water and but as you're
researching it threw that out for
yourself as well just bear in mind
that's not every fish suits and every
set up you know and also when when
you're stocking the tank you have to
look out for the fish size and there's a
myth kind of going around the fish
twenty girls at the size of the tank so
which isn't true at all and I'm gonna
put little video I don't down the
description explaining how all that
works so if you want to have a look and
then yeah
so the next thing really people them as
well yeah the filtration itself and when
you get a new tank and usually the
filtration you get with it isn't enough
for the tank so let's say you get a 20
gallon tank like this one usually
they'll give you a filter that claims
that filter up to 20 up to 20 gallons
but I usually won't actually double that
always double what it says it can do so
if it says it can do 20 you won't
actually have a filter with those 40 for
a 20 gallon tank kind of greedy when I
over filter a tank always that's one
thing you should always look out for and
yeah and also the actual what in the
filter the media there's quite a lot of
different stuff around there's that
carbon which always comes with a filter
but you can actually just throw it out
and replace it with more sponges and as
well I did a video on that but I put in
the link it explains the explained a lot
more detail about the filter media well
that's another thing it's the wafer and
also and tank maintenance for example
like water changes and how often you
clean your filter and how to clean it
you know I'm I'm also gonna put a video
in the object description that's one of
the main things they should look out for
when you're keeping a tank how it's
actually maintained it and always keep
it up weekly so if you just do a little
bit every week and you know it really
does help if you leave it once a month
it's a your tank becomes a mess so and
finally also yeah plants and people
always have trouble keeping plants when
they first get a tank because there's
quite a few Hardy plants that will
always do great and then a beginner
tanks cuz they're when you first get a
tank you always get a kind of standard
light around 15 watts or so and quite a
lot of plants will just die under that
light because it's not strong enough but
in plants I usually grow or quite Hardy
and I'll just explain what they are now
so the first one be a java moss this M
pretty much grows anywhere you can I
just tie it to a logs or the stones for
example or anywhere in tank just Tyus
and eventually a root itself tie it with
that fishing line and the same with this
plant here it's called an abuse it grows
pretty slowly but it's pretty much
impossible to kill and you can all see
the roots attached to the wood you can
also just tie a fishing line and this
stuff here is called an ballast this is
joint felis grows quite big actually
grows at taller than me I had a big tank
before and it was massive but he gather
other types that are much smaller and
they're quite easy to grow and they
rusyns a sub great sand or gravel
whatever you have
and yeah if you want a good floating
plants here's a frog fish very easy to
grow and also another grace I've found
is that java fern it's also similar to
this plant to the attaches to the would
either eventually roots itself and I'll
put all the proper names while I'm
saying them as well on the screen so
it's easier I'll put them in the
description as well and this plant here
is the sword plant usually I wouldn't
get them for your first plant bowl
they're not too hard to grow under low
light but they need and they do need
kind of fertilizers to grow properly and
for this tank I only use their liquid
fertilizers and because they take these
all these plants here take the nutrients
directly from the water so a liquid
fertilizer is the perfect for them and
yeah I think that's really kind of gone
to the basics and if you want to know
more I'm gonna put a load information
now in the description under the video
about what I've been talking about cuz
if I have I could see I could talk about
ten minutes per subject so this was just
a general like overview you know of how
a kind of fish town works and what not
to do when you're starting out so I hope
that it helps the bitch and I hope it
was clear enough I think it kind of got
lost I flew through there and yeah see
ya